Visions in Israel Over the war in Gaza
have been highlighted in the country's
Parliament today the knesset families of
Israeli hostages who are still being
held in Gaza have broken through
security and stormed a finance meeting
well they were protesting that the
finance committee was actually sitting
deliberating while their children were
still in
captivity we're shouting shame on you
and demanding that the committee members
get up and act the families called for
the government to do more to secure the
release of their loved ones the protest
highlights growing domestic descent in
Israel about the war with Hamas that's
now in its fourth month what it comes as
Palestinians in southern Gaza say the
Israeli bombardment is the most intense
they've experienced since the War Began
the Gaza Health Ministry says that9
Palestinians have been killed in the
last 24
hours well let's go live to Jerusalem
and to our Middle East correspondent
Mark loen and Mark let's start with
those events in the knesset Joseph get
give us a sense of how much pressure
Benjamin Netanyahu is now coming under
from hostage
families I think uh pretty significant
pressure Matthew and growing by the day
uh this was quite dramatic scenes
although the numbers themselves were
quite small but the fact that these uh
that these family members uh managed to
get into that uh finance committee
meeting Ian we think actually they were
probably invited by another committee
into the conet and then once they finish
their appearance they then sort of
pushed through security into the finance
committee you can just see the depth of
emotion I mean one one person shouted we
won't let you breathe until our kids
come back another held a placard saying
you will not sit here while they die
there there is a real sense from many of
the relatives of the 130 or so hostages
who are still not back here in Israel
unknown how many of them are dead uh
that the the government is not doing
enough to prioritize their release and
last night on on Sunday night Benjamin
nahu gave a a press conference in which
he said he would flatly reject any
hostage release deal that uh would
ensure that Hamas allow could could
regroup in in Gaza uh that Israel would
have to withdraw its uh troops and that
would allow Palestinian prisoners to be
released from Israeli jails he said he
would not strike a deal with as he as he
put it those Hamas monsters so you know
he is determined to push with this
offensive with the aim in his words of
complete destruction of Hamas uh but the
families of the hostages and many
Israelis in fact the majority of
Israelis according to opinion polls feel
that the priority needs to be the
release of those hostages and Mark let's
turn to events on the ground because
reports from Southern Gaza from some
people saying it's the most intense
bombardment they've seen since the the
war actually
began yeah I mean the the health
Ministry in Gaza run by Hamas has said
that 50 people were killed in overnight
bombing um and 100 people injured in
around Kan Yunis uh there is intense uh
bombardment now aerial and Naval around
Kan Yunis which is where Israel believes
the top Hamas commanders are holed up uh
it is focusing also around a couple of
hospitals in the South one of which has
been stormed with uh Israeli troops uh
arresting the Medics uh or taking them
in for questioning the Medics inside
that hospital and another one uh it has
been surrounded we understand by Israeli
tanks uh Israel insists of course that
medical facilities are being used by
Hamas uh to launch attacks against
Israeli soldiers that is something that
is denied by uh the Medics and by and by
the authorities down in Gaza uh but uh
there is a real sense that that the
south of course Remains the focus of the
military activity and that is that from
from Kan Yunis uh more and more refugees
are moving even further south to Rafa
Rafa is right on the on the border with
Egypt and that is where the vast
majority of gazans are now taking Refuge
it is is a city that before the war had
a population of around
280,000 now has about 1.3 or 1.4 million
people Sheltering there that gives you a
sense of of of the sort of uh the
inundation of people who have gone down
to Rafa and the BBC has now estimated
that about 75% of Han Yunis which is the
main city in southern Gaza is now under
Israeli control Mark loen there in
Jerusalem thanks very much well I've
been speaking to Maru Levy whose
brother-in-law is one of the hostages
being held in Gaza and I started by
asking for his reaction to those scenes
in the knesset and whether he shared
their
frustration yes of course I'm I'm I'm
I'm part of the families and and we
communicate all the time this weekend
was very intense um ever since um Hamas
published another psychological warfare
video on
Friday it led to a lot of frustration
anger sadness among the family amilies
and and so today every Monday families
of hostages go to the knesset to
Parliament to go to the different
committees one of the Committees the
finance committee uh there was an issue
of entering so families decided to to
enter without a permission and voice the
pain um I spoke with with one of them
earlier today um and I understand the
reasons why they did it they want the
Committees to continue discussing the
issues of the hostages can you also see
why their questioning the basic strategy
the notion of Maximum Force to get more
hostage releases except it hasn't
yielded anything and there's a growing
frustration among some of the family
members about the basic strategy
here yeah I think there there varing um
opinions among the families about the
strategy about the policy of the
government and this weekend we saw uh
several rallies one of which was held in
front of the prime minister's residence
in cesaria
um I I understand why there is criticism
of of the policy as you said it didn't
yield the resorts we wanted hostages are
not returning home um and then we
receive news about um killed hostages
every week uh and so we we beg and we
don't beg we demand the government to
take our voices into account and ensure
that the policy they Implement in the
Gaza STP uh ensure that hostages return
home that needs to be this shortterm
goal of the government uh and of this
operation uh irrespective of the
long-term goal of dismantling Kamas I'll
come back to that point in a moment but
let me ask you when and what you've
heard most recently about your
brother-in-law so the last we've heard
about my brother-in-law was in in late
November from one of the hostages that
was released he was alive then but but
sadly we have no news about him or about
any of the hostages
um hell captive byas I wish I I had a
better answer but the ICC is not allowed
to visit them we don't receive proof of
life and the Israeli authorities do all
they can to provide us information but
obviously that's limited to an extent
because of security
concerns um and Kamas will will not
provide us that information all they do
is provide psychological warfare videos
um as they did last weekend and then on
Friday President Biden's middle east
coordinator is now in Cairo trying to
make progress on all of this us
officials are reported as saying one of
the further complications is that hass's
demand is for a permanent ceasefire for
any further hostage releases is that in
your view a price worth
paying I I I'm not responsible for
making that decision um I think Israel
has a v viable interest that it needs to
Pres Reserve um if I look outside as an
analyst let's say rather than a family
member and understand the the complexity
the GE political complexities that the
government is facing I think that um we
cannot allow Hamas to remain in power in
the Gaza Strip after this operation
after this war for the mere fact they
committed to continue um during October
7 over and over again um and so I hope
the the different stakehold will be able
to bring both Israel and Hamas and their
accomplices closer in the negotiations
it seems like there are different
proposals yes um families met the Prime
Minister today and he said that Israel
provided a counter proposal over this
weekend um he couldn't elaborate about
it and we hope that proposal will bring
about some progress in negotiations a
final question then because we're seeing
a real intensification in terms of the
intensity of attacks in the South around
K Unice how difficult how excruciating
is it for families every single day to
to watch events on the ground when they
have no idea if their loved ones are in
that
vicinity I think it's it's difficult um
generally we don't want to witness war
and suffering uh in our region so it's
difficult to to see it difficult to read
the news difficult to wake up every
morning woring to that we hear about a
loved one of us um being killed whether
those or held hostage like my
brother-in-law uh soldiers on the ground
and I have compassion to any
non-combatant who is involved in in the
middle of this fight um uh it's
difficult uh and I don't trust Kamas to
be a good faith uh partner in in solving
this crisis the opposite they're doing
the opposite um they already killed a
few of the hostages and release video
that really make our life very
excruciating I hope this will end soon
um for the sake of everyone uh but I
understand that it cannot end without
the release of the hostages without the
dismantling of
Kamas Ashi Levy talking to me a little
earlier on the program let's